+++
title = "The needy SIM Machine and Jamal: A Story of Ice and Fire"
date = "2021-01-03"

+++
Today was a good day that looked like a bad day.

I had to use a self-service machine to get a new SIM card. The stupid machine was asking for stupid shit like national address and verification code on blah blah website but I had no internet. I felt powerless without internet. I was irritated.

So I went to the nearest Starbucks, and before he could ask me for my order I asked if they got WiFi.. aaand I was disappointed. Caffeine makes me emotional and I was already annoyed so I immediately left to go back and look for internet around the self-service machine. I asked the security guy **Jamal**, who was busy alternating between playing Ludo and taking people temperatures, if there's any Wi-Fi haven nearby..

He didn't look friendly... He looked like a traditional Saudi middle-aged city guy doing the best he can with what he was given. My curly hair, pink sweater, and mustache-less face probably defied his definition of manhood. I expected a short answer but he was warm and caring: "No there aren't.. We have to use our own internet around here.. What do you need it for? The SIM machine? No biggie I will share my internet with you.. Oh shit I'm too old for this, can you do it?".

I don't ever expect kindness, especially on days that look like bad days. I was in disbelief. I am a complete stranger he's just met 2 minutes and 21 seconds ago yet here I am holding his broken-screen phone to open a personal internet hotspot for myself, interrupting his Ludo game and life. I couldn't stop smiling. I took note of his mobile service provider.

Going back to the needy self-service machine, with internet this time, I started tapping my way into freedom (of this task). As I'm speed tapping numbers into the machine, I was approached by a kid, that worked in one of the stores nearby with his uncle.. the following exchange happens while I'm tapping tapping:

*"Do you need help? I can do it for you. I work in my uncle mobile store!"*

*"Nah. I'm good. Thank you."*

*"Wow you type so fast that's amazi-- your hand! what's that on your hand?"*

*"Birthmark. Sometimes you see it in small sizes but mine is big.. \*rolls up sleeve\*.. see?"*

*"it looks scary"*

*"Yup I guess"*

I thought the conversation would naturally end here but he really wanted someone to talk to

*"I'm Syrian but I grew up all my life in Saudi. I never went to Syria. I'm like a Saudi"*

*"You grew up all your life here? Then you **are** a Saudi"*

That's what I honestly thought.. he had a big smile on his face and thanked me as if I was complimenting him.

*"Thanks! you're kind. So can I do it for you?"*

At this point, I guessed that he enjoys taking on responsibilities and tasks outside the expected for his age group. Hence working in his uncle's store. Hence trying to repeatedly help me. Probably because of his family circumstances? and maybe it gives him a sense of pride? Anyhow, I was more childish..

"*I make these machines. I'm a computer scientist. I'm a man of science. I'll be good!"*

"*I fix mobile phones in my uncle store. I sell accessories too. He promised me to buy me an IPhone 12 if I sell 2000 Riyals. I know how to do it!*"

The kid kept on insisting so I had to switch topics.. I was halfway through SIM machine tedious process

*"What do you wanna be when you grow up then? Computer Scientist? Software Engineer?"*

*"No! I want to be a football player like Omar (Popular Syrian Football player in Saudi)"*

"*Ok cool.. you still have to finish college though*!"

*"I will be an engineer and a football player"*

"*Football players play to entertain others. Scientists learn to entertain themselves. Two different paths but you can do it!*"

Despite my pink sweater and missing mustache, I have suddenly gained his utmost respect:

*"Dude.. you're so manly and cool."*

"*Thanks, man.*"

*"Do you have a girlfriend?"*

What the hell.. *"No."*

"You think it's not okay to talk to other girls?*"

*"It's okay but I don't have a girlfriend, my man"*

"*Do you want to have one?*" In the most curious tone

"*No I don't care.*"

*"Dude.. you're so manly and cool. I want to be like you when I grow up"*

"*No, you will be better than me. I'm not that great. Just be smart and keep working hard okay?*"

"*okay.. oh look your sim card is out!*"

I was finally done!! I finally got my sim card so now I can escape this curious child questions which I have enjoyed very much. I waved him goodbye and told him to be careful of strangers. I really liked his eagerness and curiosity. 

I had not forgotten about the security guard's kindness. I used about 5 Riyals worth of his Wi-Fi data but I had to pay him back somehow (Yes this is my dilemma). I went to buy 50 Riyals prepaid voucher of the same service provider he's using but Al-Tamimi (Target-like grocery store) didn't have any. They only had a 500 Riyals gift card for shopping at Al-Tamimi (Which I kinda considered buying.. but that would be too crazy yeah?). 

Defeated and unable to return his kindness in a wholesome way, I went back to the security guard Jamal, showered him with thanks and compliments, and tried to discreetly and respectfully pay him 50 SR for the data I used for visiting some webpages. He boldly refused. He was still playing Ludo and I was still interrupting his game. I was shocked again. I told him how rare people like him are and left with a smile on my face.

In an increasingly cynical world where kindness is questioned and trust is abused, I love, cherish, admire, and respect those who are unconditionally kind without expectations. I have been through many institutions and places where many well-educated and important folks reside. Not many have the natural gift that Jamal has. A pure Ludo-playing heart.



Today was a good day. 